---
slug: "/blog/living-my-diminished-and-best-life-in-2020"
date: "2020-12-17"
title: "Living My Diminished and Best Life in 2020"
description: ""
keywords: "2020"
---

So, obviously, yeah. The pandemic. At least in the USA, I feel like we should at least acknowledge that the outbreak of COVID-19 has exposed some *really* ugly truths about where we are as a country, and that an equally if not more deadly disease plaguing us is anti-intellectualism, not to mention that there exists no evident societal framework to help those of lower socioeconomic status (many of whom I’m sure struggled a hell of a lot more than I did this year) in a situation like this aaaaand I’m going to cut myself off before I get too off topic. Anyway, I was fortunate enough to keep my cushy software job and simply start working from home indefinitely. This was one of a few major lifestyle adjustments. No more shopping, going to the gym, casual drinks after work, or really seeing people at all for the most part. At this point I hardly even remember what I liked to do. And it didn’t get any easier throughout the year. As my body atrophied from sitting at home all day, eventually so did my relationship with reality. Or at least that’s how it felt sometimes. 

Having no control over the numerous negative (to put it lightly) social circumstances this year, I began to wonder if this was actually some sort of karma for past transgressions. On some of my darker days, it would be easy to get trapped into a mindset like this, forcing myself to be okay with it and disallowing mourning or sadness for what could have been. Or I would imagine alternate, non-COVID universes where I had a real life and just tell myself that I have to live in the shitty timeline so that the other versions of me can be happy. So yeah, things got weird. Thankfully days like this were the exception and not the norm.

In this diminished sort of existence, however, there was opportunity. I tried to fill these gaps in my lifestyle with something new, though nothing seemed to stick. I did Adriene’s 30 Days of Yoga on Youtube (both of them!), but I’m certainly no yogi. I tried rollerblading a few times, but felt like it was best to not put others on the street in danger of being run over. Despite playing guitar a bit more frequently, I still have no aspirations to be the next Steve Vai or Eric Clapton. (I did *not* ever try making sourdough though, so you have me there.)

But eventually I did find one thing that stuck. Journaling! There has been a lot of free time for introspection this year (this post is a manifestation of that; I would have never written anything like this in years prior), and keeping a journal has been really just a profound experience for me. Putting complex thoughts into words can be extremely difficult. Journaling is a way for me to not only practice this skill, but in doing so explore the depths of my mind and feelings. And after digging deep enough, I found things I didn’t even know I had lost. It’s like spelunking but for my mind! Hopefully it doesn’t turn out like <a href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Descent" target="_blank" rel="noreferrer">this</a>. 

Without getting into too many details, ultimately I’m much more able to be who I want to be, and feel what I need to feel. Which raises the question, was my life really that "dimished" this year overall? Superficially, perhaps. But compared to last, the range of emotions I'm allowing myself to feel is so much wider. The lows are lower, sure, but the highs are higher and fucking fantastic. Being able to feel such happiness this year despite a... diverse set of distressing circumstances gives me pride more so than anything else from 2020. Society is hopefully going to start to resembling something familiar in the next, uh, not yet determined amount of time. And I aspire to fully and truly interact with the world around me and not live habitually in a box of my own making once it does. 

Seriously though, try journaling. And if you have shit handwriting don’t worry; you’re the only one who needs to be able to read it. Hopefully that’s not an issue.